Make documentation beginner-friendly for users without ML experience (#896)
metatensor/metatrain: README.md

<!-- marker-introduction -->

# What is metatrain?

`metatrain` is a user-friendly command line tool that helps you **train machine learning

> models for atomistic systems**. In simple terms, it lets you create models that can

Reviewer: Personally I find it distracting to have random **bold** bits *in a sentence*.. it IS a Bi*t* like having cRaZy capitalization, typically if I'm reading I'm reading the whole sentence, not soundbites

predict properties of molecules and materials (like energy and forces) by learning from
examples.

## Why use machine learning for atomistic systems?

Traditional quantum mechanical calculations (like DFT) can be very accurate but extremely
slow, especially for large systems or long simulations. Machine learning models can learn
from these accurate calculations and then make predictions thousands of times faster,
while maintaining good accuracy. This enables simulations that would otherwise be
impossible.

## What does metatrain do?

- **Training**: Teaches machine learning models using your data (atomic structures and
  their properties)
- **Evaluation**: Tests how well your trained model performs
- **Export**: Saves models that can be used directly in molecular dynamics simulations
  with engines like LAMMPS, i-PI, or ASE

> Everything is configured through simple text files (YAML format), so you don't need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything is configured through text files (in the [YAML](https://yaml.org/) format), so you don't need to
```

write code to use it. Once trained, your models work seamlessly with various simulation
engines through the [metatomic](https://docs.metatensor.org/metatomic) interface.

## Do I need to know machine learning?

**No!** This documentation will guide you through the process step by step. We'll explain
concepts as we go, assuming you have basic familiarity with ASE (Atomic Simulation

> Environment) for working with atomic structures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
concepts as we go, assuming you have basic familiarity with ASE_ (Atomic Simulation
Environment) for working with atomic structures.

 .. _ASE: https://ase-lib.org/
```

# Installation

## Quick install (recommended for beginners)

The easiest way to get started is with pip:

```bash
pip install metatrain
```

This installs the core `metatrain` package. You'll also need to install at least one
machine learning architecture. For beginners, we recommend starting with SOAP-BPNN:

```bash
pip install metatrain[soap-bpnn]
```

**Why SOAP-BPNN?** It's fast to train, works well for many systems, and doesn't require
GPU acceleration (though it can use one if available).

## Alternative: conda installation

If you prefer conda:

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge metatrain
```

> ⚠️ **Note**: The conda installation includes only basic architectures like PET. For

> > other architectures, you may need additional pip installations.

Reviewer 3: My opinion is that something like "basic architectures" shouldn't exist. What does PET have that makes it "basic"? If there were no "basic architectures", then all architectures would have dependencies.
